Document "Reference/Commands/vcpkg  x-add-version" (#128)
microsoft/vcpkg-docs: vcpkg/commands/add-version.md

---
title: vcpkg x-add-version

> description: Command line reference for the vcpkg x-add-version command. Update version database of vcpkg ports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Reference for the vcpkg x-add-version command. Update version database of vcpkg ports.
```

@AugP and @vicroms 

We decided to remove the "Command line" at the beginning of these descriptions to make it shorter, reduce the repetition of the "command' word and not having to deal with ["command-line" vs "command line"](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/c/command-line).

author: JavierMatosD
ms.author: javiermat
ms.date: 08/14/2023
ms.prod: vcpkg
---

# vcpkg x-add-version

[!INCLUDE [experimental](../../includes/experimental.md)]

## Synopsis

```console
vcpkg x-add-version [port-name] [options] [--all] [--overwrite-version] [--skip-formatting-check] [--skip-version-format-check] [--verbose]
```

## Description

The `x-add-version` command updates the version database for vcpkg ports. By default, it operates on a specified port. With the appropriate switches, users can choose to process all ports or change the default behavior regarding formatting checks and version updates.

## Options

All vcpkg commands support a set of [common options](common-options.md).

### `[port-name]`

Specifies the name of the port to be updated. If not provided, the user should use the `--all` option to process all ports.

### `--all`

> Processes all the ports in the built-in ports directory. If this option is used in conjunction with a specified port name, a warning will be issued, and the specific port will be ignored. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Processes all the ports in the built-in `ports` directory. If this option is used together with a port name, a warning is issued and the specific port is ignored. 
```

> built-in `ports` directory 

"built-in ports" is a concept so it should have a link to somewhere else in the documentation explaining what it means.

> a warning is issued, and the specific port is ignored. 

Technically, it is not ignored since the provided port name is processed as part of "all" ports.
@AugP thinks this should be a hard error instead of a warning. Not blocking on this since it is documenting existing behavior.

### `--overwrite-version`

> Overwrites an existing version in the database. Useful when updating an existing version entry. 

Reviewer: This section needs a disclaimer, we don't want users abusing this to change the versioning history.

If you want to fix an error on a version you release a new version, for example: if "1.0.0#2" has a missing include, then you fix it by releasing version "1.0.0#3" not by overwriting version "1.0.0#2". This is used for WIP scenarios when you're still working on a new version that is going to be added to a registry.

Maybe we should document this restriction somewhere else in the documentation (like as part of the versioning concepts) and just link to that here.

### `--skip-formatting-check`

> Skips the check for proper formatting in the manifest file (`vcpkg.json`) of the port. By default, proper formatting is checked and required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Skips the check for [proper formatting](../commands/format-manifest.md) in the manifest file (`vcpkg.json`) of the port. By default, proper formatting is checked and required.
```

Author: We don't have that command documented yet.

### `--skip-version-format-check`

> Skips the version format check. By default, versions are checked to ensure they adhere to a specific format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Skips the version format check. By default, versions are checked to ensure they adhere to a specific format.
```

This needs a link that explains what are the checks, a link to https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/vcpkg/users/versioning#version-schemes works.
